# Jack Landherr
26 June 2019
## Week 1 Blog
After reading the 5 articles assigned for Information Studies 30 week one, I was easily drawn towards the first article, “Technology and ideology: The Case for the Telegraph” (Carey, 2006). My first impression after hearing his take on the telegraph and the importance of it in todays society was the printing press created by Johannes Gutenberg. I remember learning about the impact on society the printing press had such as people having the access to scriptures such as the bible in their own homes. I believe the printing press also changed how people communicated back then as information was more easily spread because of the printing press, similar to the telegraph. Casey also describes how the telegraph completely changed the way business was handled, as people were now able to purchase goods without ever having to see the good in person, this new phenomena also had an effect on prices as goods values were able to reach an equilibrium, causing the practice of hustling goods by buying goods at one price, then selling them at a higher price to disappear.

The second article, “The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires”  (Wu, 2010), brought up the idea of how technological advancements experienced the inevitable cycle of open and closed. As the advancements become integral in society and exponentially expand, they then become roadblocked by industries and the government to create monopolies over these industries. This article also described the scenario in how an advancement that may be closed off and even forgotten or just simply mundane to society may be rediscovered and improved upon. An example of this scenario became evident to me in the article, “Low Tech Magazine: Doubts on Progress and Technology” (De Decker). In this article, De Decker whose main focus is on low tech network providers who can possibly service barren or isolated users through long range wifi “resembles the 18th century optical telegraph” (De Decker, P.12). Not only is this an example of forgotten closed technological advancements opened up again and improved upon, this also argues the point Carey was arguing for as the telegraph transcends any other technological advancement.

### Works Cited
Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph

Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203

How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazin

Jack Landherr
Professor O’Hara
Information Studies 30
11 July 2019
#### Hyper-Text Self Portrait Week 3 Blog
My name is Jack Landherr and I am a first year student-athlete on the football team at the University of California Los Angeles. The six pictures I chose for my slide-show gallery self portrait successfully portray my personality. For this project, I wanted to juxtapose my persona as a football player and really try to find pictures that I believe represent my personality and the way I see myself, an easy-going athletic nerd. The picture of myself in the UCLA football uniform was chosen to represent and celebrate the accomplishments of playing college football and attending my dream university. Football was a key step in achieving success in my life, most notably allowing myself the opportunity to play at such a great institution but i believe my work in the classroom, starting in elementary school and going beyond highschool is what really set me up for success. Graduating from High School, represented by the picture of myself in my graduation gown with my little sisters expresses not only how much education means to me as it is my number priority here at the University of California Los Angeles, but it also describes my passion for family. As the oldest of two younger siblings, I made it my goal early on in life to set the best example for my two younger sisters to follow. One virtue/example I am still working on not only setting for my two sisters, but also working on for myself is accepting yourself for who you are and being proud of it. The photo of myself at Star Wars Land was chosen to represent that side of me that I am more often than not too shy to express. Lastly, the two photos of myself surfing were chosen not only to represent my laid back, easy going persona, but also symbolize my growth in association with technology. The first surfing photo was taken when I was 6 years old, around the time when I first became exposed to the inconceivable world of the internet, whereas the second picture of me surfing this year shows i am still pretty clueless when it comes to the internet, symbolized by the wave size as the recent pictures wave is not much bigger. My knowledge and understanding of the internet is not much bigger.

My first experience/memory with any sort of technology is playing backyard baseball 2001 at my cousins house at around the age of 6. I remember looking at the keyboard, clueless as to what purpose it served, similar to how I still look at it now. Another early memory of technology would be the release of the iPhone, back in 2008. I have a vivid memory of my mom watching a tutorial from Steve Jobs who was explaining all the state-of-the-art functions and features the new phone possessed and I never thought I would be able to use one because I believed it was too complicated. Today, on the contrary, I could not imagine my life without any sort of Apple product. The iphone or macbook is the only type of phone or computer I am accustomed to and has ultimately led me to a one dimensional understanding of most technologies, even the ones I am most familiar with and accustomed to. As an effect, the end to end article written by Tareleton Gillespie came as a shock, as it tackled the concept of what the internet and its infrastructure should truly be described as. Never before had I thought of what the internet actually looked like, similar to Long’s statement in the article, the internet was such a “mundane” part of my life. This cluelessness towards the internet and technology in general was definitely exposed as I continually tried to embed a hyperlink into the photos of my slideshow gallery. With little to no prior knowledge and experience in this subject, I had to research more about the process of writing HTML, and beginning with the basic steps. 
##### Works Cited

Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet. Social Studies of Science, Vol. 36, No. 3. Sage Publications



Link to my Self Portrait
[Self Portrait Project](https://jacklandherr.github.io/Jack-Self-Portrait/)

###### Blog Week 4

Today's society is largely based on social interactions, not only through conversation in the real world, but also on the internet through our interactions on apps such as social media and text message. One of the biggest issues that has arisen with technological advancements has been the infringement upon our social interactions, whether they be public or private, real world or artificial interactions. Our private behaviors on the internet are being analyzed as data for many beneficial and convenient reasons such as targeted ads, but what many people do not realize is that more data is being analyzed than necessary. As stated by Shoshana Zuboff in her video speech on surveillance capitalism, “an unnecessary amount of data surplus is being collected by the ‘big other’ to use.” The purpose of this data remains unknown but it is an infringement upon our privacy as devices such as your cell phone are listening to conversations that have long been private, for example a conversation with your pet, or “The decibel levels in your living room” (Zuboff). “Every device, smartphone, or piece of technology used today is a node to track and hunt down any and every piece of data companies and/or the government can get their hands on” (Zuboff). The collection of data may come as a benefit to society, as more specific data may lead to better government agendas. Data collected from our personal interactions of our everyday lives helps the government organize people, hopefully assisting them in the effort to create better infrastructure of society. Organization is the key to creating successful sociotechnical systems such as healthcare or education as the data collected may help them formulate better healthcare options for people who may not be well represented for the government to have been able to help them in the past (Norman Pg. 90). While data may help the government to create a more specific and beneficial political agenda for society to thrive off of, organizing people by infringing upon their private interactions alludes to a scary point in time, The Halocaust. In Bowker’s book “Sorting Things Out”, specifically chapter 6, Bowker uses the culture of South African in the mid 1900s to show how the government can easily abuse its power to organize people in a scary manner. Bowker talks of how in South Africa in the 1960S, the government separated and organized people by race, drawing vivid similarities to the halocaust. Being categorizable allows for the government to control a group of people with ease, which may in fact be the goal of the government in today's society as they continue to infringe upon our private interactions to possibly categorize to control us with ease.

###### Works Cited

Bowker, G. C., & Star, S. L. (1999). The case of race classification and reclassification under apartheid. Sorting things out: 

Classification and its consequences, 195-225. Forum Privatheit 2018: Shoshana Zuboff keynote speech on surveillance capitalismhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DeaSxCN2uw8

Norman, Donald A., and Pieter Jan Stappers. (2015) "DesignX: complex sociotechnical systems." She Ji: The Journal of Design, Economics, and Innovation 1.2 83-106.

###### Blog Week 5


As technological advancements continue to be produced and society advances along with them, our focus will polarize from being on the betterment of society, to the one upping of previous advancements. No longer are the masterminds behind technology or even the companies that use these technologies prioritize their employees and the people who use the technologies. After reading the article in the L.A. Times “Your Job is About to Get Taskified,” by Mary L. Gray, a scary vision occured to me, and I find this funny because i had not reached the point in the article that describes this phenomena that occured to me. I was immediately reminded of the factories women and children had to work in for 14-16 hour days during the industrial revolution. Ironically, the article began discussing how today’s internet jobs where there are no regulations on working online, rather than just user agreements resembles those factories during the industrial revolution. I agree with Gray as she calls out the government to make rules and regulations to counter and subdue this phenomena as we experience the modern day working regulations foundation being set. The 4 readings total all related to each other i  the fact that all of them were calling for government assistance in helping subdue the negative effects technology has had on society. Another interesting article that drew my attention and truly caught me in disbelief was the video on “ E Waste Hell “ made by SBS Dateline. I was shocked that countries like the U.S., Great Britain, Australia, and many other countries are sending their e waste illegally to impoverished countries like Ghana, to dispose of. Old and unwanted goods such as computers and tv’s and everything in between was being sent to ghana to be burned. Not only is that morally wrong for these countries to throw their responsibilities onto another country, it is terrible for the environment of Ghana and the people who live their. Without question, our countries must prioritize how they dispose of our e waste, not only at a much higher moral standard, but at a higher standard for the environment, while keeping people who may be affected by the disposal of these items in mind. One of the first steps in solving these issues at the government level, is changing how our political agendas view technological advancements and their impacts on society. Politicians and even the technological masterminds continue to think with a “Broken World thought process as they push for novelty, growth, and progress as their starting points in thinking through nature and society.” (Jackson P.2). Politicians must prioritize innovation and repair as one rather than thinking of them as separate ideals. I believe the world could be sustained and even improved if politicians can lay a framework for future generations to follow that will keep the world safe from environmental issues that come along with the disposal of e waste, and new regulations for companies to follow that will benefit employees and users rights.

###### Works Cited
Gray, M. (2016) Your Job is About to Get Taskified Los Angeles Times

Jackson, S. J. (2014). 11 Rethinking Repair. Media technologies: Essays on communication, materiality, and society, 221-39.
Watch video: SBS Dateline, E-waste https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dd_ZttK3PuM

